We've built our function that extracts features.
Now, let's run it on all of our data.
We're going to train on 10 second non-overlapping windows.
So we will iterate through each session in our dataset,
and then divide it into our 10-second windows.
For each window, we will run, our featurization code.
We'll keep track of our features, the labels,
which is the activity classes,
and then the subject that each data point comes from.
So we end up with an array of labels which is
just the activity classes like walk and run,
and an array of subjects which is the subject ID, s1 through s9.
Features is just a feature matrix.
We have 611 rows and 55 columns.
So we have 611 data points and 55 features.
We started out with 10 seconds of 256 hertz accelerometer data,
that's 2,500 samples for channel,
and with three accelerometer channels,
that's more than 7,500 data points.
We've successfully reduced these 7,500 points to
just 55 while hopefully retaining all the information we need to build a good classifier.
Although we only have eight subjects of data,
we've managed to make 611 data points,
and that's because each 10 second window is its own datapoint.
However, these data points are not independent.
Because there's homogeneity in how individuals do a specific activity,
datapoints from the same person might be more similar to each other.
We have to keep this in mind when we train and evaluate our model.
In the next video, we'll use these features
to build a random forest model and classify our data.